br refactor (2): translate br overview, design overview, and use overview (#11313)
pingcap/docs: br/backup-and-restore-overview.md

Snapshot restore:

- BR uses resources of the target cluster as much as possible. Therefore, it is recommended that you restore data to a new cluster or an offline cluster. Avoid restoring data to a production cluster. Otherwise, your application might be affected. PITR only supports restoring data to an empty cluster.

PITR:

- You can only perform cluster-level PITR. Database-level and table-level PITR are not supported.
- You cannot restore data in the user tables or the privilege tables.

Backup storage and network configuration:

- It is recommended that you store backup data to a storage system that is compatible with Amazon S3, GCS, or Azure Blob Storage.
- You need to ensure that the br command-line tool, TiKV, and the backup storage system have enough network bandwidth, and the storage system can provide sufficient read and write performance (IOPS). Otherwise, they might become a performance bottleneck during backup and restore.

### Compatibility

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB Backup & Restore Overview
summary: Learn about the definition and features of TiDB Backup & Restore.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/br/backup-and-restore-tool/','/docs/dev/reference/tools/br/br/','/docs/dev/how-to/maintain/backup-and-restore/br/','/tidb/dev/backup-and-restore-tool/','/tidb/dev/point-in-time-recovery/']
---

# TiDB Backup & Restore Overview

> Based on the Raft protocol and a reasonable topology, TiDB realizes high availability of clusters. When a few nodes in the cluster fail, the cluster can still provide services. On this basis, to further ensure the security of user data, TiDB provides the Backup & Restore (BR) feature. As the last resort to restore data from natural disasters and misuse, this feature provides the capability to restore service data from any misoperations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the Raft protocol and a reasonable deployment topology, TiDB realizes high availability of clusters. When a few nodes in the cluster fail, the cluster can still provide services. On this basis, to further ensure the security of user data, TiDB provides the Backup & Restore (BR) feature. As the last resort to restore data from natural disasters and misuse, this feature provides the capability to restore service data from any misoperations.
```

Author: 这两句表达的是同一个意思，都是数据可以从灾难和误操作中恢复，用 in addition 连接不恰当。
TiDB provides the Backup & Restore (BR) feature as the last resort to recover data from natural disasters and misuse. 
In addition, this feature also provides the capability to restore data from any misoperations.

> BR satisfies the following business requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BR satisfies the following requirements:
```

- Back up cluster data to a disaster recovery (DR) system with an RPO of no more than 10 minutes, reducing data loss in disaster scenarios.

> - Handle the cases of incorrect writes from applications by rolling back data to a time point before the error event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Handle the cases of misoperations from applications by rolling back data to a time point before the error event.
```

> - Perform history data auditing to meet the requirements of laws and regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform history data auditing to meet the requirements of judicial supervision..
```

> - Clone the production environment, which is convenient for troubleshooting, performance tuning and verification, and simulation testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clone the production environment, which is convenient for troubleshooting, performance tuning, and simulation testing.
```

## Use backup and restore

The way to use BR varies with the deployment method of TiDB. This document introduces how to use the br command-line tool to back up and restore TiDB cluster data in an on-premise deployment.

For information about how to use this feature in other deployment scenarios, see the following documents:

> - [Back Up and Restore TiDB Deployed on TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/backup-and-restore): It is recommended that you create TiDB clusters on [TiDB Cloud](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud/?from=en). TiDB Cloud offers an easy way to deploy and manage databases to let you focus on your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Back Up and Restore TiDB Deployed on TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/backup-and-restore): It is recommended that you create TiDB clusters on [TiDB Cloud](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud/?from=en). TiDB Cloud offers an fully managed databases to let you focus on your applications.
```

- [Back Up and Restore Data Using TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/backup-restore-overview): If you deploy a TiDB cluster using TiDB Operator on Kubernetes, it is recommended to back up and restore data using Kubernetes CustomResourceDefinition (CRD).

## BR features

TiDB BR provides the following features:

- Back up cluster data: You can back up full data (**full backup**) of the cluster at a certain time point, or back up the data changes in TiDB (**log backup**, in which log means KV changes in TiKV).

- Restore backup data:

>     - You can **restore a full backup** or **specific databases or tables** in a full backup to the state when data is backed up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You can **restore a full backup** or **specific databases or tables** in a full backup.
```

>     - Based on backup data (full backup and log backup), you can specify any time point to restore the target cluster to the state when it is backed up. This type of restore is called point-in-time recovery, or PITR for short.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Based on backup data (full backup and log backup), you can specify restore the target cluster to any time point of backup cluster. This type of restore is called point-in-time recovery, or PITR for short.
```

### Back up cluster data

Full backup backs up all data of a cluster at a specific time point. TiDB supports the following way of full backup:

> - Back up cluster snapshots: A snapshot of a TiDB cluster contains transactionally consistent data at a specific time. You can back up snapshot data of a TiDB cluster using br command-line tool. For details, see [Snapshot backup](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Back up cluster snapshots: A snapshot of a TiDB cluster contains transactionally consistent data at a specific time. For details, see [Snapshot backup](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#back-up-tidb-cluster-snapshots).
```

- When there are only log backup tasks, the impact on the cluster is about 5%. Log backup flushes all the changes generated after the last refresh every 5-10 minutes to the backup storage, which can **achieve a Recovery Point Objective (RPO) of no more than ten minutes**.

### Restore backup data

Corresponding to the backup features, you can perform two types of restore: full restore and PITR.

- Restore a full backup

    - Restore cluster snapshot backup: You can restore snapshot backup data to an empty cluster or a cluster that does not have data conflicts (with the same schema or tables). For details, see [Restore snapshot backup](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-snapshot-backup). In addition, you can restore specific databases or tables from the backup data and filter out unwanted data. For details, see [Restore specific databases or tables from backup data](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-specific-databases-or-tables-from-backup-data).

- Restore data to any point in time (PITR)

>     - By running the `br restore point` command, you can restore the latest snapshot backup data and log backup data to a specified time. br command-line tool automatically determines the restore scope, accesses backup data, and restores data to the target cluster in turn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - By running the `br restore point` command, you can restore the latest snapshot backup data before recovery time point and log backup data to a specified time. br command-line tool automatically determines the restore scope, accesses backup data, and restores data to the target cluster in turn.
```

#### Restore performance and impact on TiDB clusters

- Data restore is performed at a scalable speed. Generally, the speed is 100 MB/s per TiKV node. BR only supports restoring data to a new cluster and uses the resources of the target cluster as much as possible. For more details, see [Restore performance and impact](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-performance-and-impact).
- On each TiKV node, PITR can restore log data at 30 GiB/h. For more details, see [PITR performance and impact](/br/br-pitr-guide.md#performance-and-impact).

## Backup storage

TiDB supports backing up data to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), Azure Blob Storage, NFS, and other S3-compatible file storage services. For details, see the following documents:

- [Specify backup storage in URL](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#url-format)
- [Configure access privileges to backup storages](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#authentication)

## Before you use

> This section describes the prerequisites for using the TiDB backup and restore tool, including the usage tips and compatibility issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the prerequisites for using the TiDB backup and restore, including the usage tips and compatibility issues.
```

### Some tips

Snapshot backup:

- It is recommended that you perform the backup operation during off-peak hours to minimize the impact on applications.

> - It is recommended that you execute multiple backup or restore operations one by one. Running backup operations in parallel reduces performance and also affects online applications. Worse still, lack of collaboration between multiple tasks might result in task failures and affect cluster performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is recommended that you execute multiple backup or restore operations one by one. Running backup operations in parallel leads to low performance. Worse still, lack of collaboration between multiple tasks might result in task failures and affect cluster performance.
```

Snapshot restore:

> - BR uses resources of the target cluster as much as possible. Therefore, it is recommended that you restore data to a new cluster or an offline cluster. Avoid restoring data to a production cluster. Otherwise, your application might be affected. PITR only supports restoring data to an empty cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- BR uses resources of the target cluster as much as possible. Therefore, it is recommended that you restore data to a new cluster or an offline cluster. Avoid restoring data to a production cluster. Otherwise, your application might be impacted. PITR only supports restoring data to an empty cluster.
```

PITR:

- You can only perform cluster-level PITR. Database-level and table-level PITR are not supported.
- You cannot restore data in the user tables or the privilege tables.

Backup storage and network configuration:

- It is recommended that you store backup data to a storage system that is compatible with Amazon S3, GCS, or Azure Blob Storage.
- You need to ensure that the br command-line tool, TiKV, and the backup storage system have enough network bandwidth, and the storage system can provide sufficient read and write performance (IOPS). Otherwise, they might become a performance bottleneck during backup and restore.

### Compatibility

> Before you use BR feature of TiDB, pay attention to the usage restrictions, compatibility, and other considerations of BR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: There should be a short description between different levels of titles. If you think the content inappropriate, you can polish it.

#### Compatibility with other features

Backup and restore might go wrong when some TiDB features are enabled or disabled. If these features are not consistently enabled or disabled during backup and restore, compatibility issues might occur.

| Feature | Issue | Solution |
|  ----  | ----  | ----- |

> |GBK charset|| br command-line tool of versions earlier than v5.4.0 does not support restoring `charset=GBK` tables. No version of br command-line tool supports recovering `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GBK charset|| BR of versions earlier than v5.4.0 does not support restoring `charset=GBK` tables. No version of br command-line tool supports recovering `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0. |
```
